Tasks that come up in the wild are more
likely to be messy in some sense. They
are
They involve working with other people.
They They involve working in much larger
code bases or or sort of more open-ended
problems, maybe with something even
adversarial going on. In the In the
software engineering context, that that
might be that someone's trying to make a
change to the part of the code base that
you're currently working on and and and
you need to and you need to work around
that. And we do tend to see that the AIs
are less capable of working on these
more messy problems.
>> Mhm. I don't want to overstate that. You
know, it's not it's not an enormous
effect, but you know, that's that's one
thing that gets in the way of
of these productivity increases. You
know, and then I do think there's
there's something to the reliability
question, right? Where
you know, if it was true that for a
certain type of task, you only had, you
know, 80% reliability, then every time
you're going to need to go back and
verify the work of of these AIs and not
only verify the work of these AIs, but
without the context of how they
implemented the solution relative to if
you went to
if you went about the task yourself,
you'd already have that in in your head.
And so this verification step, quote
unquote, would would take less time.
You know, I don't expect these frictions
to
be sort of so fundamental in some sense
or I imagine they they go up levels of
abstraction. I think Not only is the
underlying technical progress real, but
I think that the productivity
improvements are also going to
show up increasingly. But yeah, there
are these frictions.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway.
Tracy, one thing about AI is that
lots of lines that go up.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh yes, famously famously there is
perhaps one line that has captured the
attention more than others when it comes
to lines going up.
>> Yeah, but
yes. But
we're recording this April 7th. Did you
see the Uh, Anthropic revenue chart, by
the way. It's just a straight It's just
on The number of lines going up. I mean,
there are some some really I just
Yeah, okay.
>> Up until recently, there was one chart
of a line going up exponentially that
became, I think it's fair to say, the
most viral chart in AI, right?
>> Yes, I would absolutely agree with that.
So, one of the many lines that go up,
and there are various lines that sort of
capture this, is um essentially just
measures of AI progress of what What the
models are capable of and so forth, and
you know, there's all different
benchmarks out there, and hobbyist
benchmark creators, etc. All kinds of
benchmarks out there. Um, organization
called Meter,
uh, based out in San Francisco, and they
measure how well AI models are doing at
various sort of engineering tasks, etc.
And they have these charts showing how
long, you know, certain tasks, how uh
that it would how long it would take a
human to do them, and then whether AI
could do them. And yes, the line just
almost almost vertical. I think there
was someone like one of the ones that
came out maybe very early this year or
late last year showing the latest Claude
model. And I was like, "This is crazy."
So, that one was really interesting
because when I look at these charts,
they're called time horizon charts. When
I look at them, I like intuitively, I
kind of understand what they're saying,
and you can kind of see the leap in
progress between some of the previous
models and Claude, right? The latest
Claude model. And that's what got
everyone excited was you had this big
exponential shift up in the capability
of that particular AI model. But then
when I start like diving into what it
actually says on Meter's website about
what these charts represent, I start
getting really confused.
>> I'm kind of the same. And like I know
everyone wants to get excited about AI
and charts going up in general, but I
think there's a lot of nuance here, and
we should probably talk about it cuz the
other thing going on with meter right
now is they've become sort of the
industry standard benchmark and so a lot
of investment decisions are being based
on these charts and if you over simplify
them as just like okay lines going up
and then suddenly it goes up even more
obviously people are going to start to
get like maybe a little over excited. Um
can I say one other thing too that I'm
very curious about like I'm really glad
that there are people designing various
benchmarks for measuring AI progress
seems like an important thing to get a
handle on but like if I were
like say like talented or smart enough
to be like doing these things I would go
work for one of the labs and make 10
billion dollars a year or something like
that and so I'm actually curious cuz a
lot of nonprofits etc. It's like do you
really like want to be like working at
the cutting edge of AI at a nonprofit? I
mean I guess it open AI is owned by a
nonprofit weirdly enough but you know
what I'm saying? Like I would want the
money.
>> Well we should talk about it with our
guests who are currently sitting right
here.
That is exactly right. I'm very excited
to say we have the two perfect guests to
talk about the most viral and maybe
important chart in AI right now. We're
going to be speaking with Joel Becker he
is a member of the technical staff at
meter and we're also going to be
speaking with Chris Painter the
president of meter. So Joel and Chris
thank you so much for coming on Oddlots.
Thank you thank you for having us.
>> Um really excited to chat with both of
you. Why don't we just start um Chris
since you're the president I'll I'll
start with you like what is what is
meter how long has it been around what
is this organization what's its goal
just give us the the sort of 60 second
synopsis of meter. Yeah totally I can
try and you know sometimes I give a long
version I can try and do a short version
here. So meter is a research nonprofit
based in the Bay Area like you said
dedicated to advancing the science of
measuring whether and when AI systems
might pose catastrophic risks to
humanity as a whole, focused
specifically on threats that come from
AI autonomy or AI systems themselves.
So, when you talk about there's kind of
this whole field in AI of dangerous
capability evaluations, people seeing
can this AI system assist with a
chemical or biological weapon attack,
can it advance
kind of like bad actors' ability to
execute cyber attacks on a really large
scale. METR has sort of specialized in
specifically assessing how autonomous
are AI systems, what is the scale and
like length and difficulty of tasks that
they're able to do by themselves,
partially because we think it sets the
stakes for conversations about AI
misalignment.
So, we sort of see ourselves as being on
the hook for at any given point in time
giving humanity the bits of evidence
that are most informative for
establishing the stakes of are we
reliant on AI systems as a society in a
way that could make it
really bad if they are misaligned.
I'm going to let Joe ask the question
about why you're both working at a
nonprofit instead of one of the labs
later, but one question I do have is
when I think of METR, you guys always
come up in the context of these time
horizon charts. And I
I don't mean this as an insult or
anything, but I hardly ever hear anyone
talk about the actual like safety aspect
of your mission. Why do you think that
is? Yeah, so I think
>> [clears throat]
>> there's some distinction between our
motive for assessing time horizons and
the kind of
how it gets used then by the rest of the
world or kind of like where the origin
of the rest of the world's interest in
it. For for METR, I think that the
reason that we
work on things like the time horizon
charts is because if we're trying to
establish the stakes for talking about
could AI systems go rogue or one day
could they like try to take over and
subvert human control. The the three
years ago, if you went back to around
when METR started about fourish years
ago, and if you it was started by Beth
Barnes, Paul Christiano, and this was
kind of the initial motive is if you if
you went back then and you said, "Why
don't I think that AI systems are going
to go rogue and like take over or
overthrow humanity today?" The kind of
most intuitive, you know, you can come
up with a lot of abstract reasons,
debates about the goals AI systems might
or might not eventually have, but the
kind of most damning in the moment
reason is the AI system just can't do
much, right? It doesn't make sense to
talk about a question-answer system that
like can't even reliably answer
programming questions saying like, "Is
it going to hack my systems or like
backdoor me in some way?" It just
doesn't make any sense to talk about
that.
>> going to write you a poem that you asked
for. [laughter]
>> Right. Or it won't even At the time they
couldn't do anything by themselves. And
so if you're like kind of being able to
subvert human control depends on agency.
And so we wanted to come up with a
measure that kind of tracks agency over
time to kind of say when would this
argument no longer apply. When are AI
systems now able to kind of do long
complex enough actions by themselves
that the argument kind of the goalposts
almost moves somewhere else to like,
"Well, we would catch the AIs or the AIs
don't want to subvert human control."
And so I agree that there is a
distinction between like how I think
partially the exercise of trying to come
up with these measures throws off things
that are very like grounded and
intuitive measures of AI progress that
might be more intuitive than just
benchmarks, right? So if you A lot of
people are in the game of making just
benchmarks where you say like, "Here's
my my harm bench or something. The AI
gets 70%." That's That's much less of a
kind of grounded or long-lasting metric.
Like it's hard to say what that means or
how that generalizes. But the idea with
time horizon is like maybe it's a
it's more intuitive and I think that
helps both for safety and for like
business understanding. So let's talk
about what this chart I you got the the
main chart here meter.org right on the
front page. It's
you know, it's this time horizon chart
and it shows Claude Opus 4.6
as of February 2026
able to complete a task length in 11
hours and 59 minutes with a 50% success
rate. I have to admit
the first time I saw this chart or
versions of this chart, what I assumed
and I suspect others assumed is that it
was able to go off and work on a task
for 11 hours and 59 minutes and
then come back with an answer. But
apparently it's not that. What do you
walk us through? Like what's what's
really being measured here? By the way,
the previous high
was all was GPT 5.3 Codex. That was 5
hours and 50 minutes. So I guess part of
the reason this chart has blew people's
mind because literally that's basically
a double. But why don't you talk to us
about what's really being measured here?
Yeah, I'd say I'd say fundamentally, you
know, in simple terms, we are plotting
the difficulty of tasks the AIs are able
to complete over time. And you know, the
particular way that we measure the
difficulty of tasks is in how long it
takes humans to complete
to complete those same tasks that we're
asking the AIs to do. So in this case,
you know, we're talking about for Opus
4.6,
something like tasks that take humans 12
hours to do, we predict that it will it
will succeed at those tasks around 50%
of the time.
And
yeah, you know, it turns out that that
when you plot using this particular
difficulty measure, the how long it how
how performant AIs are
relative to how long it takes humans to
complete these tasks, we see an
exponential increase
in capabilities for AIs. And you know,
what what that what that ends up meaning
is that you keep on having these
doublings of of capabilities every let's
say 4 months it seems on on recent
trends, where you know, the next model
is not merely going to have necessarily,
you know, an hour longer time horizon,
but but perhaps be
having some multiple of the time horizon
of the of the previous model that's come
out. So then explain how that number,
for 12 hours, is established. So, there
is some engineering task and you say,
"Okay, this is a task that would require
12 hours." But, humans have all
different types of talent, capabilities.
How do you establish that, "Okay, this
is was a 12-hour task. This was a 6-hour
task. This was whatever it is."
Yes, so so the simple answer is
literally we get humans to sit down and
complete the tasks that we give to AIs
under as close to identical conditions
as possible. So, so first we we come up
with the tasks and that's, you know,
that's a whole kettle of fish. We can we
can talk about exactly how we do that.
Um and then using essentially the the
same tools that we're about to give the
AIs, we take um talented humans, you
know, not people who have seen this
particular type of task before, but
people who have relevant expertise. So,
if it's a software engineering task, you
know, they they have software
engineering expertise. Machine learning
task, they have machine learning
expertise. Um and then we time them. We
we see we see how long it takes for them
to complete those tasks successfully.
And then roughly we call the difficulty
of the task as measured in human time to
complete as the average time it took
these humans to complete the task. Um
then we'll uh run the AIs on this same
set of tasks, you know, typically today
for the very easiest tasks that they're
more or less always going to succeed. Um
there's some mid-range of tasks where,
you know, perhaps they succeed 50% of
the time or perhaps for some tasks in
that range they succeed 0% of the time
and for others 100% of the time and so
they're getting 50% on average, let's
say. Um and then for the much harder
tasks perhaps they're getting closer to
0%. And then um
the the the point at which we predict,
you know, in the middle of all of these
0%s and 100%s by by task, the point at
which we predict that they'd have a 50%
chance of succeeding, that is either a
um
uh 50% chance of succeeding on some task
or 50% of the tasks um of that
difficulty that they we we think they
would succeed on, that's what we're
going to call the time horizon of these
models.
I think one thing also that could be
good to explain here is the task
distribution. I mean, this is not This
is not all activities that humans do. We
are specifically here interested in or
the like There's some question in what
tasks are, you know, like Joel
mentioned, we're having people come into
our office, do the task to get a sense
of how long it takes. We're not having
them come in and like, you know, paint
paintings or write novels or, you know,
we're we're focused here specifically on
things that are in the distribution of
work that a engineer at a like we like
to think of it as like a frontier AI
lab. Um
the tasks that they might be doing. So,
this is things like software
engineering, it's fine-tuning um AI
models. I don't know if you want to give
other examples, but it it's it is like
software machine learning that that uh
kind of task.
>> Wait, can I just ask, why did you decide
to focus on engineering? Because you
could have widened it out to, you know,
if we're talking about AI being capable
of, you know, taking over the world,
there are all sorts of substantive tasks
that would fall under that category. So,
why just do engineering? So, for one
thing, um I think maybe other people on
the team or maybe Joel has thoughts
about this, um but might have other
answers. I think my particular motive in
being interested in the time horizon on
software tasks is that it is kind of
First of all, it's the thing that the
the industry is very like already, even
before we started working on this, is
very focused on. So, it's one of the
capabilities that you should expect to
come along for the ride earliest. It's
the thing that like a lot of
optimization pressure is being exerted
on. Um and then I think that it it is
kind of the like thing that you would
expect as an early warning kind of sign
of this AI R&D automation. So, to some
extent, Meter thinks of itself as trying
to build, you know, science that or
advanced science that can say, "When are
we getting to the point that AI systems
could improve themselves or speed up the
pace of AI development? When will AI
research kind of feed on itself?" And
the kind of core capability for that
might be software engineering and
machine learning research ability. Um
There are other skills that could be
relevant to taking over the world. Um I
think other people have done time
horizons on like cybersecurity since
yeah. But I suppose it is true that the
basilisk isn't going to paint its way
into like power or something like that.
Okay. It might deceive you. It might be
like, you know, you could it might be
very convincing or cunning in some way
and uh Fair. hand over the keys.
>> [laughter]
>> I might say a few few mental models, you
know, we we don't have um perfect
evidence of this whatsoever, but my
rough sense sort of um colloquially or
you know, my prior before evidence comes
in is that if we did study tasks on
these very different distributions, you
know, not machine learning, not software
engineering, I'm not sure about painting
exactly, but you know, perhaps um other
kinds of task distributions that we
could enumerate, that basically we would
see this similarly shaped exponential
progress over time where every I'm not
sure exactly, but let's say you know, 4
months, 6 months, something like that
the um level of capabilities as measured
in time horizon would be would would be
doubling at something like that pace,
maybe from a much lower level. So, you
know, one example that we do have better
evidence of is that the AI today are
much less performance at, you know,
anything that requires vision
capabilities, seeing seeing what's on a
screen, kicking um clicking around at a
at a computer, um but they're getting,
you know, tremendously better at that at
that sort of thing over time. I just do
mention quickly, we did actually do a
very kind of brief investigation of this
and other task distributions that's on
our website somewhere, um like
cross-domain time horizons. I think we
looked at data from the Tesla's shared
on self-driving. I'm forgetting the
other ta- there's like OSWorld. Maybe
some of these are like somewhat similar,
still kind of in the distribution of
software tasks, but trying to get
further afield into things like vision.
Yeah.
So, the other question I had is how big
is the sample size on the humans who are
actually doing work? And also
is it getting harder getting like human
engineers into the room to compete with
like Claude Opus 4.6 versus say, you
know, if I was a mediocre engineer, um
and I'm not, I'm a non-existent
engineer, [laughter] but if I was a
mediocre one, I would like maybe I would
feel good about going up against like
GPT-3 or something and maybe I would
feel a lot worse about myself going up
against like Claude. Yeah, you know, on
these tasks I'm in a I'm in a pretty
similar position myself to you.
>> [laughter]
>> Um
so we have approximately three, although
it varies quite a lot across tasks, um
human baselines per
per task. So, you know, typically we're
averaging over something like three. I I
think the the final numbers, um it's
it's my impression that they're not
going to be so sensitive to um to to the
particular baselines that we use. Aren't
the longer tasks weak more weekly
baselined?
I'm thinking of Nathan Witkin. He's in
my ear. Yeah, so so indeed, I think it
will get a lot harder to baseline these
tasks um as as the um as the length of
tasks AIs are able to successfully
complete gets longer and longer. You
know, you might think at some point the
um the the length of tasks that they can
complete is um is um longer than the
doubling time. You know, in in 4 months
time they're going to be able to
complete tasks of more than 4 months.
And then it's, you know, kind of becomes
perhaps close to impossible to to to to
get these 4 month long baselines. Um of
course, we're not at that point yet, but
you know, definitely it has has become
more difficult to get these um to get
these baselines as as time has gone on.
At the moment, not not impossible, but
but very challenging. Joe, these are the
future jobs for displaced engineers,
right? It It's competing against the
code for benchmark purposes.
>> benchmark evaluation.
>> the jobs.
Uh here's a I mean, here's a
question. So, we mentioned at the
beginning the most viral chart in AI is
this chart that you have on the front of
your website. Your website defaults to
this. And it shows, um you know, this
doubling. So, if we actually like go
back to November, let's say November
2025,
Gemini 3 Pro, 3 hours and 44 minutes,
Claude Opus 4.6 12 hours. That's at the
50% success benchmark. If we go to the
80% benchmark, which the website doesn't
default to,
The improve The pace of improvement
looks a little less impressive to me.
So, okay, now it's like
it just doesn't it does not have the
same gap, pretty clearly. Now, 80% is
still not 100% and I know that this is
your meter's goal is about like, you
know, human safety and all this stuff,
but when we think about people look at
this and they use it as a stand-in for
how performant are these models. Even
80%,
you know, certainly for like any
business application. I understand
you're not like serving business here
per se, but
probably businesses care about this.
Even 80% may not be very good enough and
it does not look as crazy when you look
at the 80% chart as it does at the 50%
chart. Why the focus on the 50% chart
and given like why not look at the chart
that just does not look as impressive?
Yeah, I have maybe two central things to
say. Um, you know, one to my eyes the
80% chart basically does look as
impressive or the doubling time is about
the same.
>> This is cope on my part.
>> [laughter]
>> You see it's it's the same it's the same
increase but it is an offset of It's
it's the same pace of progress, you
know, it's something like five times
five times smaller than the than the 50%
than the 50% number, but you know, that
only takes you two doublings and if each
if each doubling takes around four
months, that means that in in eight
months time you're going to have the
same 80% success rate roughly as as you
do 50% success rate today. That's that's
one thing to say. Maybe a second thing
to say is, you know, remember at the
beginning I said essentially what we're
doing is plotting the difficulty of
tasks that you that these AIs can
complete over time just with this
particular measure that's that ends up
showing this clean exponential trends
and we've picked a particular number as
our difficulty number and you know, that
that is this 50% reliability threshold.
We could we could have picked a
different one. [laughter] I think there
are reasons for picking the 50% one in
particular. It's the one that's um um
statistically we're we're better able to
to to measure for some for some
technical reasons. It's the one that
shows up in um
in previous literature. There there
there are some couple of a couple of
other reasons why why we can go for 50%
rather than 80%. May- maybe a final
thing to say is that this 50% number is
sort of equivocating between um these
tasks it's able to complete 50% of the
time and 50% of the tasks it's able to
complete 100% of the time and 50% it's
able to complete 0% of the time.
And actually I I think the situation is
it's somewhere in between but it's a
little bit closer to the latter where
there are some tasks that it's
completing with near perfect reliability
and some tasks in that range that it's
completing with very low reliability.
Um
and you know for for downstream economic
applications or for applications inside
of these major AI companies or or or
something, you know, you you might think
that that's more favorable in some sense
that there are some of these tasks where
we're getting 100% reliability even even
for very challenging tasks. I think two
other things may maybe it could be
useful to just explain when you you said
that there are technical reasons why
it's easiest to measure at 50% one like
it is just the case that it is 50% is
the point at which it is like least
sensitive to like the distribution is
kind of thickest, right? I mean correct
me if this is wrong but my I mean there
there are like to resolve something like
95% you would need way more samples
because then you need to have some that
are like
you need way more samples to be able to
resolve that level of precision. Am I I
I I think there there are some caveats
to that picture but but let's say even
more extreme. You know, let's say that
we cared about you know, 99%. In that
case if we had 1% label noise quote
unquote if you know, if sometimes we
were um we were accidentally grading
some of the failing tasks passing, some
of the passing tasks as as failing then
we just never be able to estimate that
reliably, right? Um and um at the 50%
this comes a little bit a little bit
closer to washing out. And then I think
one other intuitive thing here or one
intuition is that if you give me a task
and you give me the model, all you tell
me is the length of task that it takes a
human to do the task, the 50% time
horizon is the like point at which I
think it is more likely that the model
will be able to do the task than that it
can't. And I just find that intuitive,
yeah.
How much interest you get on these
charts from potential investors,
specifically? And the reason I ask is
because um I was just messing around and
like Googling some stuff and when the
Opus chart, the latest Opus chart came
up, um someone posted it on Reddit. And
I think like the second comment on it
was someone going, "How do I invest in
OpenAI?" And like and and like people
were they were trying to club together
to like invest in these companies. So
clearly there are people out there who
are using these charts as investment
tools. I would say you know, we don't
get an enormous amount of inbound from
investment firms. I mean, sometimes you
know, VCs or whatever, we're based in
the Bay Area will reach out to us. I
think that there there's some kind of
principle of our goal is to inform the
public and give them the best evidence
that we can about when we might get to
this point of kind of, you know, AI
being, you know, fully autonomous or
able to improve itself. And there's some
principle at play here of like, I kind
of want to enable people to do whatever
they will do with that information. And
I think that um yeah, I I we don't
engage a ton in kind of the like
business side or investment implication
of the work. I think that it if I knew
one one kind of thought experiment I
sometimes do like um say to myself is,
if I do believe that at some point we're
going to get this AI that's improving
itself, and we're like AI research is
automated and you have all these fears
about a singularity, um would I rather
that like all of Wall Street didn't like
falsely didn't think that was coming
when I believed it was coming, or would
But want them all to know that it was
coming, given that I believe it's
coming. Maybe this is more a personal
view, but I think if this is possible
that we will automate AI research, I
think all of humanity being aware of it
is kind of a aware of where we're
heading is sort of a precondition for us
all being able to figure out what to do
about it. And so I don't kind of want
like certain people or one side or one
team to kind of like selectively be in
the dark because they might invest on
the basis of this or something like
that. But we don't, you know, it's not
where we put our time. We're we're
focused on informing the public. The
public includes some investors. So, on
that note, like what is the actual level
at which we're all presumably supposed
to panic or at which like if you're a
policy maker, you would start to get
worried about AI being able to automate
and improve on itself in a way that
eventually becomes detrimental to
humanity?
I don't know exactly what the level is
on this time horizon measure. I think,
you know, one thing to say is we we have
made
real progress on the science of
measuring these AI systems and how
capable they are, but I I think there's
a long way to go and and in important
sense, I think I think we're behind on
this task.
You know, we're we're measuring some
underlying technical trend and
at some point I I, you know, I do think
that's that implies greater greater risk
to astonishing things happening,
although, you know, Chris can speak more
to
other arguments that we might back out
to for for for why even if AI is very
capable,
we we still might not see catastrophic
dangers emerge in the short term.
Um, yeah. I'm I'm unsure. What happens
today? You know, I think part of the
reason why the AGI chatter has really
picked up, particularly in the wake of
like everyone using cloud code, is it's
very easy to imagine, it's like you're
sitting there, it's like, yeah, I do
this, do this. It's like, I don't even
need to be here, right? I think you sort
of get a very intuitive feel for like
how the human can come out of the loop.
What happens today, as I'm sure this has
been tried, like if you go to like
uh chat GPT and you say here's a cloud
code
here's a you here you have cloud code
access build go build something and the
AI is what actually happens today when
AI is working with AI. Yeah, my my sense
is that
at some point you know further away
points than would have been true some
some time ago the AIs will more or less
fall on their faces that's that you know
there are some things they're not so
capable of today.
>> Like collaborative hallucinations will
they just like you know just like
devolve into terrible
>> Yeah, I think all sorts of ways this can
go you know at some point they're going
to need to rely on external resources
and and and today that they're not as
capable at managing these external
resources effectively I think they're
less capable at
sort of ideation and sort of
self-awareness about where they are in
the problem today than they are at these
kind of raw software engineering skills
you know you know as as you mentioned
the ways in which AIs are autonomous
today
or or close to autonomous today is the
human has the idea and then you know
submits that idea to cloud code or or
code x or or one of these other agentic
AI tools and then they handle the the
software engineering components possibly
there's still still some some
intervention after that
I do imagine that the sort of circle of
autonomy or something gets gets larger
over time I do think there's no
fundamental barrier it seems to me to
today AIs having those ideas and and and
and to be moved to a greater level of
abstraction but if we were purely
relying today on on these fully
autonomous capabilities you know could
you manage research department
department any any department of your
choice inside of a major AI company you
know my my guess is probably not.
Actually on this note this reminds me
something I wanted to ask so when you
look at the domain specific time horizon
charts so the ones that show like you
know that I think you call them task
suites or something like that like it I
guess productivity by specific job and
you see these different lines so
sometimes you see like almost horizontal
lines and sometimes you see squiggly or
steeper lines.
What is actually happening there? Like,
how are we supposed to interpret that?
Like, is this Is that a measurement
problem or is it saying something very
fundamental about like what AI can and
can't do under current conditions? The
thing that I think would be good for
Joel to explain is that I think that
that there is a distinction here between
um will AI like the time horizon chart
doesn't by itself I think tell you will
productivity in one specific kind of job
increase because of access to AI. Do you
want to talk about that? Yeah, maybe one
thing to say on on on that chart um
showing the time horizon on on on these
different task distributions.
Relative to my guesses ahead of time,
you know, I think those time horizons
are remarkably similar. I I think the
the um the the doubling times, the pace
of progress in AI seems more similar
than I than I than I would have guessed
to the original trends that we that we
published, although, you know, in in
perfectly so.
On this difficulty translating what we
might call raw AI capabilities in some
sense, you know, capabilities on
benchmarks or something to um to to
real-world productivity, I I I think
there are a number of differences and a
number of ways in particular in which
the benchmark results are overestimating
what we might see in the wild, you know,
not not hugely overestimating. I I think
we do see that people are getting real
utility out of these modern um agentic
AI tools, but overestimating to some
extent.
The one is that the scoring implicitly
is is different um in um in real
problems I'm scoring based on um you
know, something a bit more holistic than
these um
algorithmic scoring procedures, these
automatic scoring procedures that we're
using at Meta um and then many other
people are using in the in the benchmark
world. There's some notion of code
quality if you're if you're working in
software engineering, but but for other
tasks there's there's um Beautiful code,
elegant code, people always talk about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. For for other tasks
that's going to be
>> If Anna Wintour was coding, this is what
it would look like. What one more thing
is that the the tasks that come up in
the wild are more likely to be messy in
some sense. They are
they they involve working with other
people. They they involve working in
much larger code bases or or sort of
more open-ended problems, maybe with
something even adversarial going on in
the in the software engineering context
that that might be that someone's trying
to make a change to the part of the code
base that you're currently working on
and and and you need to and you need to
work around that. And we do tend to see
that the AIs are less capable at working
on these more messy problems.
>> Mhm. I don't want to overstate that, you
know, it's not it's not an enormous
effect, but you know, that's that's one
thing that gets in the way of
of these productivity increases. You
know, and then I do think there's
there's something to the reliability
question, right? Where
you know, if it was true that for a
certain type of task, you only had, you
know, 80% reliability, then every time
you're going to need to go back and
verify the work of of these AIs and also
only verify the work of these AIs, but
without the context of how they
implemented the solution relative to if
you went to
if you went about the task yourself,
you'd already have that in in your head
and so this verification step, quote
unquote, would would take less time.
You know, I don't expect these frictions
to
to be sort of so fundamental in some
sense or I imagine they they go up
levels of abstraction. I think not only
is the underlying technical progress
real, but I think that the productivity
improvements are also going to
show up increasingly, but yeah, there
are these frictions. Trish alluded to
this question when she asked about VCs
and investor interest. So people see
these charts and regardless of what
Meters point is, like, this is
incredible. I got to invest in this. But
this brings me to this broader thing
that I find very strange about AI, which
is this kind of odd sort of Baptist and
bootlegger relationship between the AI
labs, people who are building the stuff,
and the sort of alignment safety people,
and they sort of go back and forth, and
like the you have the heads of the lab
saying, "Yes, this might destroy the
world and take all your jobs." And the
safety people and the alignment people
says, "Yes, this might destroy the
world." And like I'm
a very strange industry, right? Like the
only thing that [laughter] I can think
of is cigarettes where like they warn
you that smoking is bad, except they had
to do that cuz they lost a lawsuit. I
don't think they were particularly
inclined to do that. I can't think of
any other industry where the most
enthusiastic people about it are also
warning and dooming about how bad the
thing they're building could be. So, I'm
sort of curious, like
you know, first of all, like and
talked about this in the intro, like who
is the type of person that's like
working at Meter? That is like skilled
enough to do like advanced evaluations,
and like where's the funding coming
from? But like talk to us about like
who's behind Meter and why they're
there. I think one thing to say on the
kind of like big picture of or the
history of kind of people caring about
AI safety in the Bay Area is that this
concern goes back like quite a a ways.
I'd say for over a decade. There are
many people who got into the field
because they saw they kind of saw this
trend of deep learning like what if deep
learning works and it kind of goes all
the way to artificial general
intelligence and then super
intelligence. And it if that works,
then like it could affect everything.
Possi- I think possibly when people
worry about this, there's a future that
they have in mind with super
intelligence that's even more capable
than what people who think of themselves
as like AGI pill today think of. They're
imagining AI systems that can run, you
know, the entire economy. And I think
people who kind of
a while ago or many years ago saw that
vision and were sort of alarmed about
the stakes of it. Many people have this
intuition that the thing to do is go and
work in the industry because if you're
like helping build, you know, what's the
best way to shape the future? It's to
build it. And I think that one there's
obviously you could have questions about
how sincere that is for for many of the
people who are in the industry or if
there's kind of a mix of different
motivations and like you know different
wolves inside of them where maybe they
partially are motivated by that but also
they're like there's kind of this like
Oppenheimer like
it feels good to feel like you're in the
position of making something that's
dangerous maybe.
>> Someone once described Open AI to me
this was years ago a friend said it was
like Open AI was sort of like the
Manhattan Project except the goal was to
not build the bomb at the very end if
that makes any sense so to your
Oppenheimer point it's a very strange.
>> And I think one thing to emphasize is
you know while while it could be that
there's a mix of motivations now there
definitely many people I think in the
Bay Area who sincerely believe that the
the technology is headed to some place
that will be very difficult for where it
will be very difficult for humanity to
stay kind of in the driver's seat or
like stay in control in kind of a
meaningful sense
and where was I going with that? Sorry
zoned out for a second. Um I think that
the I zoned out Oh they you say you
they're very worried about people being
able to stay in the driver's seat? Yeah
and so I think that you know this
concern is quite old and I think many
people have this intuition that they're
like I can influence the thing by
building it but now there's this problem
that that logic kind of always
recommends that you continue building
more advanced technology or like more
advanced AI systems and now you have
this problem where we're kind of there's
all of these companies and they all say
that they need to build it because you
know if they if they don't build it
another company will and then even if
all of the and they could all have
doubts about each other's commitment to
safety or to these principles famously
the leaders of the labs really do not
get along they're not friends it's not
easy for them to kind of sort out the
safety thing among themselves and then
even if all of the US AI labs kind of
agreed to do that they then have this
kind of external boogeyman of China
right what what what will the Chinese
companies do? And so there's this sense
in which um just like even if the
concern is real, I think a a lot of
people then have who are in the industry
have the the instinct that they kind of
there's no guiding principle for what
they should do on safety other than to
like build leverage for themselves for
later. Um and I think that is a
concerning state of affairs for AI
development to be in globally.
Um you know, obviously we're trying to
do something different by like informing
the public or kind of giving like
partially, you know, you could imagine
that the the situation would be better
if or like one one gap that exists right
now in that picture is that it's the
people building the technology who most
believe that it's going to be
destabilizing and sort of
all-encompassing. Maybe if the public
and governments all were on the same
page and believed the same thing, if it
if it were true that it was headed
there, then there would be kind of like
more time for society to figure out a
response from people who are not trying
to build leverage over the technology
themselves directly or or you know,
control the technology via some kind of
um like public action or government.
Can I just ask very quickly since you
brought up China and I don't want to
forget to ask this question, but Kwai
doesn't show up on your like main
charts. I think you did a preliminary
assessment of it a while ago, but like
what's the difference between assessing
one of the closed models in America
versus one of the open source models
over in China?
I I I think one thing to say is that the
capabilities are are lacking behind. Um
we we think that they're they're lacking
behind. I'm I'm not sure So they're so
irrelevant they just like don't make it
onto the chart or Um so we we do try try
to prioritize um just because Meta has
has limited resources, staff time in
particular. Um
the uh the the the models that we that
we anticipate being on the frontier and
in general the Chinese models have been
something like, you know, 9 to 12
months, let's say, behind behind the US
models. Um and I think the um
the gap by time horizon is is probably
even larger than the gap by benchmark
scores, where there's some
I'm not sure how scientific I can make
this, but there's some colloquial sense
or something that
that
the
Chinese models are stronger according to
benchmark scores than they would be on,
you know, truly held out problems in in
some sense. Problems
like on the They're gaming the
benchmark. Is that what that means or
I'm not sure technically, you know,
exactly how that shakes out, but but
something spiritually spiritually close
to that. I'm not sure that's really fair
for all Chinese models. I'm sure it's
true for for lots of models outside of
China,
but
but I think that's at least one
possibility. Okay. And then just getting
back to the sort of is AI going to take
over the world question.
I'm very curious when you talk to
external actors in all of this and I'm
going to group them into I guess policy
makers, investors, and the labs
themselves. Like who are you interacting
the most with at the moment? I think
that
in practice we end up interacting a lot
with AI labs because there's some amount
of sorting out, you know, sort of
getting access to models, kind of
working with them to set new precedents
on things related to third-party red
teaming and third-party risk assessment.
We think of our audience as being sort
of like high-context members of the
public. So the kind of like people, you
know, who are maybe like you two, right?
People who are kind of like People
listening to this podcast specifically.
>> listening to this podcast. People with
kind of who who have to make important
decisions that will be informed by the
pace of AI progress or like the the kind
of profile of AI capabilities overall.
Because we're based in the Bay Area, I
think we like disproportionately end up
interacting with people who are building
the technology and like closer to it.
Partially, I think back to Joe's point
before, I think this is kind of because
it is it is the case that you to kind of
care about a lot of these frontier
problems, you you you're kind of
selecting for people who are building
the technology themselves. There's some
sense in which like the companies in the
industry spends more time thinking today
about frontier capabilities assessment
than the government does.
>> Yeah.
>> I think like one day you could imagine
us getting to the point where the
government is like very focused on this
and dedicating a lot of resources to it.
And at that point, I would expect Meter
to be spending more time talking to
governments. Yeah, that's kind of what I
was getting at cuz our sense is in a lot
of the conversations like we talk to
people and they'll say something about
like oh it's important to have a social
safety net for an AI enabled future.
But no one seems to be really thinking
about it in a lot of detail. And when
you say you know it's easy to imagine or
maybe the government will care more
about this, not so easy for me to
imagine. I seems like they mostly care
about you know data centers and like
where they located and stuff like that.
It would be nice if we had policy makers
really looking at like frontier
capabilities and stuff. Still seems kind
of a way off. Um but it's interesting
you know you're like talking about like
the sort of like capitalist dynamic,
right? There's competition and it's like
you have a lot of people that are really
worried about oh what if the other guys
get to ASI or AGI first or what if the
Chinese etc. How much does the fact of
like free market capitalism and the
demand, you know, the big investors at
the VC funds like they want a return,
they want an IPO. We might get to big
uh AI AI IPOs
>> [clears throat]
>> this year in fact. How much does just
like
how much do you find that to be perhaps
in tension with the safety element?
Yeah, I
maybe yeah, people on our team would
have different views on this. I
personally don't feel
there's yeah, there's some
thing here of like investors are key
decision makers and you know, they're
people too. That sounds strange to say
investors are people too. I sound like
Mitt Romney or something. But I I think
that like um
it doesn't feel I think that the the
thing that feels the the element of this
that feels like it could be in tension
is if you build a bunch of financial
obligations to uh keep kind of the pedal
to the metal no matter what the risks
are going into the future. So like one
thing I think a lot about is if you're
like building up a huge amount of debt
to build data centers. And then say that
you do find evidence that you're now
worried about about the you know loss of
control from AI systems. You do find
instances of AI systems going rogue. Do
you now have like a financial commitment
to build up those data centers and like
continue kind of the pace of progress? I
think that is one place where I feel the
tension pretty acutely. Like you're
building these expectations into the
market that could kind of um force you
to continue development when you
otherwise would rather invest more in
safety or yeah, like it at least gives
you a a kind of financial obligation to
continue scaling at least compute. Um I
think that like the people themselves
being informed about the progress does
not seem bad to me. Um I I think it's
like good in some ways for everyone to
be on the same page about capabilities
that could be related to subverting
human control later on. Um but I think
that there is I think in the world
beyond like the information that Meter
shares, I do think there is a tension.
Like the fact that private companies are
building this, I think could it cause um
kind of like really acute tensions in
the future where yeah, people make these
commitments that they wouldn't if they
were trying to like slow or you know,
maximize social resilience to the
technology. Yeah, I'm not sure how these
things shake out, but I but I think
there are some forces on the other side,
right? Like um you know, some safety
promoting technologies, quote unquote,
or techniques um do make the models more
useful. You know, if they're if they're
better complying better complying with
your will in some sense. And so you have
capitalist incentives, standard
capitalist incentives to to invest in in
in that kind of
Maybe that doesn't cover, you know, the
broad suite of safety research that that
seems important and it's you know it it
certainly doesn't
rule out capabilities progress as being
an important axis on which on which you
do want to scale.
But you know I think I think there are
some some forces in each direction.
Since you mentioned compute just then,
can you talk a little bit more about I
guess the relationship between like the
time horizon improvements and the cost
of compute at the moment and like what
you've actually seen and how that
impacts it? Yeah, so so one
extraordinary fact from from my
perspective, I'm not sure how to how to
fit these facts together, but something
like the R&D spend on compute of these
companies has risen exponentially of
course and in fact has risen
exponentially at essentially the same
rate as time horizon progress. You know,
I think there's nothing necessary about
that. You know, it doesn't it doesn't
mean by itself that if if computer
progress slows then then
capabilities progress will also slow,
but you know, it's clearly an important
input into into AI progress. I expect
that to to continue to be
continue to be true in future. Sometimes
people ask us if we think it's plausible
or how plausible we think it is that
that capabilities progress, this
exponential capabilities progress, might
slow down at some point at some point in
the future and
you know, one one reason it seems it's
hard for me to consider it plausible
that it will slow down in the next at
least small number of years is that a
lot of those computer R&D investments
basically already baked in. Right? Like
the the data centers have already been
built. You know, plans for data centers
even beyond you know, 2027, 2028
are presumably you know, coming coming
to fruition, coming coming about. And so
some of these input investments are
already baked in in some sense. So it
would be surprising to see capabilities
slow to the extent that
computer has been has been an important
input. After that maybe maybe you need
to think about you know, other arguments
for how capabilities might slow, but
that's roughly how I think about it.
There's a very good or interesting
critical Substack post that called
Against the Meter Graph by someone named
Nathan Whitken who brings up one an
interesting point that I wouldn't have
thought of had I not read it, which is
you're paying the software engineers to
come in and perform these tasks, right?
Treat it It seems like you know, maybe
this will be the last job of humans to
just sit doing benchmarks.
If I were like a good software engineer,
you say "Come come in and do this task."
What is it the How do you prevent me Oh
man, this is taking me a long time.
Meanwhile, I keep getting $100 an hour
for like looking at my computer and Woo,
this is tough. I'm going to have to come
back tomorrow and keep working on this.
How do you avoid the sort of conflict of
interest where the person who's paid to
work on this problem may be encouraged
to take as long as possible to solve it.
And with only three people working on it
at at times, like
I don't know. It's like this does not It
How do you Yeah, just seems like an It
seems like a conflict of interest to me.
Yeah, so the short answer is, you know,
in general we are incentivizing these
people to to complete the task as soon
as possible. Um in particular, to
complete the task faster than their
peers who are who are attempting um the
the same task the the time that it will
take for them to complete the task.
>> a bonus if they do it faster than Yeah,
yeah, approximately there's a there's a
bonus um if they if they complete it
faster faster than anyone else. Um
you know, another thing to say is um
I think I think it just is true that our
baselining methodology or or the ways in
which we compare to humans in some ways
leaves a lot to be desired. That, you
know, ideally, we would have invested,
you know, 100 times as many resources in
um you know, having 100 baselines human
baselines per per task. And um and those
would have come from, you know, perhaps
the very best software engineers or
machine learning engineers in the world.
Maybe that would be the Maybe that would
be the comparison that we're making. And
indeed, we'd be um doing all of all of
this procedure over many more tasks, not
just many more tasks, many more tasks
over wider task distributions than just
software engineering or machine learning
engineering.
You know, I I mean I I do think time
horizon still represents progress over
over what's come before in in the
science of measuring AI capabilities.
But you know, in some ways I'm
sympathetic to a lot to a lot of to a
lot of criticisms of time horizon.
I do think that some of the details at
least for the work we've done so far,
you know, aren't going to matter as much
as you might naively think. So choosing
the, you know, shortest baseline time
that we that we
that we end up observing or the longest
time, you know, it's actually not going
to make that much difference to the
final measurements. You know, of course
we we do think these people are talented
software engineers or cyber security
people or or so on depending on the
task. But you know, perhaps we could
have found even more talented people.
They would have completed it in half the
time. And so, you know, naively it would
seem like the the time horizon that we
estimate of these models would be half
as long as we actually end up observing.
But of course that that wouldn't change
the wouldn't change the doubling time.
It would mean you'd get to the same
level after another another four months.
In some sense the, you know, the the big
picture that I want time horizon to
point to is less this like Opus 4.6 is
12 hours in particular and more that
we're seeing this remarkable pace of
progress that shows no signs of of
slowing in in the recent past.
And and I think in in the near future as
well. You know, in fact, it shows some
signs of
of speeding up. Well, I was going to ask
about this because I think recently the
statistic that you would always hear was
like a doubling every seven months,
something like that. How fast do you see
it going in the near future?
Yeah, so I was a doubling over every
seven months person. But there was there
was controversy in our team about about
what to believe here. Because when we
originally published this work Um,
approximately a year ago, you'd see uh
you know, if you plotted a a single
straight line, a single exponential,
you'd get something like, you know, six
or seven months, let's say. But, if you
restricted to just the time since I
think GPT-4 um since the 2024 models
onwards, you'd see something closer to
this sort sort of like four or five
month trends. Um, and um some people
believed in that and and you know, some
people like me had the intuition that
well, we have so few data points. We
should we should really be estimating
over this larger number of data points
and a larger number of data points says
every six or seven months.
Um, there are a couple of things that
have changed my mind and and
made me realize my colleagues were right
since since then. Um,
one is that for the for the models that
have that have come out since, you know,
what what trends has has better
predicted um how how performant those
models would be. And it's very clear
that the answer to that is um the the
four month doubling time and it's not
this seven month doubling time. You
know, that there's some some possibility
that could speed up again. We we've seen
it we've seen it speed up once. So, I
think there are some reasons in
principle why you why you might expect
it to speed up again. I think there are,
you know, some some caveats about this.
You know, these are these are maybe some
some takes that my my colleagues would
agree with and so um you know, maybe
maybe you should discard that or you you
know, you should think that they're
they're going to um commit me in the way
that they did with the with the four
month versus seven month um doubling
times. I have some suspicion that the
tasks that Meta is measuring performance
on are, you know, in some sense um more
and more narrow slice of of possible
tasks. And in particular, a more and
more narrow slice that is perhaps
similar to the kinds of tasks that you'd
expect these major AI companies to be
training on in the first instance. And
so, in some [clears throat] sense, we're
increasingly more so than was the case
before, measuring progress on the exact
types of tasks that they're trying to
get better at. You know, you you might
think, for instance, the kinds of tasks
that um
that would make for good uh
reinforcement learning environments, the
kinds of tasks that you can score
quickly and cheaply and and and
automatically. Um I think that progress
is real. I think that progress um
generalizes to some extent to to other
types of tasks. I think I think we're
seeing, you know, remarkable progress in
these more messy tasks, for for example,
as I as I referenced earlier. One last
question which is like, how big's your
team, funding, and like also how many
people at Meter are basically like
really rich from AI? And they're like,
you know what, I'm good. I don't need to
pursue like 20, you know,
stay there, stick around for the IPO or
whatever. I'm set. And now I want to
work on something that let humanity
know. I've seen like there are other
independent AI researchers and they talk
about this. It's like, I want to be able
to talk about what I saw and said. Miles
Brundage, someone who has like a little
uh think tank, he's talked about this.
What's like, how many people are like
rich already and they're like, okay, now
I want to work for something that's
public facing. Yeah, so Meter right now
is about 30 people, although we're
growing and hoping to um, you know, grow
fast. We are hiring, I should say,
meter.org/careers.
Um and uh yeah, you were touching before
on kind of the thing about is it
difficult to be a nonprofit. You know,
we can't pay people in equity. Um we we
do try to pay competitively on cash
compensation, right? So that's um an
area where we feel we can like somewhat
compete with labs. Um and I it's true
that I think a a lot of our team is just
motivated by trying to kind of do
something different, like not, you know,
all the companies to some extent are in
this build business of kind of like
building somewhat redundant products,
kind of competing for the same role in
the world. And Meter is in a really
unique position at the moment where I
think that we have kind of different um
we have like access and the ability to
communicate these ideas and explain the
state of AI research to a number like a
a lot of audiences that might be hard
for like individual researchers inside
of a company. Like we get to talk to a
lot of governments directly. We get to
come here and talk with you all. Um and
that's kind of different. I think if you
look at all of the actors that are
working on the frontier of AI research
or AI safety, you kind of if you compare
us to um AI lab staff, I think that our
work gets to be we get to kind of every
day work on whatever research we think
will be most informative to the like
public decision making by the way.
>> not ex-AI, but exes and former AI lab
staff who maybe there was a tender at
some point and now they work at Meta.
>> Yeah, we do have some of those. Yeah. So
we we do have some people who previously
worked at AI labs. I do think that as
time goes on, I think one hope that I
have is that more, you know, there there
will be more and more researchers who
have kind of like uh made the money that
they need from working in the industry
and now we're excited and kind of like
lifting all boats by working on kind of
like inside of an organization where the
North Star can be what is most
informative to the rest of the world
outside of these like you know,
relatively small set of companies.
Uh Chris Chris is very polite. I think
that's I think that's wonderful. I'm
tempted to be a little bit a little bit
more aggressive.
In this conversation, I think we have
spoken through Meta's work on some of
the most important problems in the
world. Problems that are going to define
the future, I think for for not just the
next years, but you know, coming coming
decades, maybe maybe even coming
centuries. And we've also spoken about
some of the ways in which Meta's work is
is not might not what you might want it
to be. That there's a long way to go in
the science of evaluating these AIs. Why
have we not made more progress? You
know, maybe maybe a couple of reasons. I
think clearly the central reason is that
we are bottlenecked on
on technical talent on on, you know,
incredibly capable people to to to come
work on these questions. I was on a Meta
work retreat recently where we were we
were brainstorming, you know, 20, 30 of
these what seemed like world important
problems. Problems that we think no one
else is going to get to if we do not get
to them. And we are able to to um to
conduct research on on how many of those
problems? I think it's one, two, you
know, maybe if we do an extraordinary
job this quarter, it might be it might
be three. You know, as as um as Chris
alludes to, I think if you're if you're
interested in, you know, less working on
redundant products at at these um at
these major AI companies and more, you
know, um advancing our understanding on
some of the most important questions in
the world that are that are going to
shape the world for years to come, Meter
is Meter is a great place to go. Well,
yeah, one more thing to say about that
is like the the vibe inside of Meter is
a state of triage, right? And I think
people often tell themselves uh
externally people might guess, oh, you
know, Meter is a it's outside of any of
the AI labs, so the thing it might most
struggle with is things like access to
AI models, you know, you can't do the
research you want cuz you don't have
you're not building the thing yourself.
In practice or that's the story that
people always tell us you have to build,
you know, the future to shape it. In
practice, I think our experience at
Meter is that like um when we want new
types of research that would require new
kinds of structured access, our
experience at this point has been that
AI labs are like pretty game to play
ball on that. Um and the thing that is
more happening is that we're having to
turn down opportunities to do stuff like
that because we don't have the staff
that we need to make those things
happen. Um so, yeah. Interesting. John,
Chris, thank you so much for uh coming
on Odd Lots. Absolutely fascinating
conversation and I appreciate you taking
your time. And great to have you in
studio. Yeah, thank you so much for
having us. Thank you so much for having
That was a really interesting
conversation. It to the we're starting
from the end sort of the idea of like,
okay, here are some really important
questions. Like let's just set
everything aside. And there's 30 people
working on them. And there's you know,
and like how many people want to do it?
And it's like, okay, we try to match
cash comp, etc. Like that seems like
kind of a tricky issue. If like if you
accept the premise that these are some
big questions we have to get right and
we got to land this plane hopefully,
like that's a bit of an issue. Yeah. Um
the other thing I thought was really
interesting was the Chinese models not
really making it on the charts even
though like we know in in the market
itself like when Deep Seek when that new
version came out that was like this huge
thing where everyone started to panic
and then to not see it even like land on
the Time Horizon chart it's kind of
interesting.
>> I guess it's in I mean I guess I buy the
reasoning from their perspective that
the only interesting question from
meters perspective is like the most
cutting edge which may be slightly
adjacent to the most interesting chart
for like business, right? So it's like
okay, we know that Deep Seek and Quan
and Kimmy and all those are like very
impressive. Do they push like the very
frontier? Perhaps not. But just in
general I find this space so weird
because it's like here you have these
people who are like clearly quite
alarmed at the potential here and most
people I think look at these charts and
they say like wow this is like I want to
invest in this or this is like really
exciting. Yeah.
>> Like that's why my first question was
like you're here for AI safety purposes
but everyone seems to get excited about
the line go up chart, right? Like
there's a disconnect
>> Like I say when an industry basically
says it's worried by itself Yeah. you
should pay attention.
>> It's really strange. I I really like
this gets back to you know a very it's
very strange where you have the CEOs of
these companies who are in many cases
the most alarmist and there's this sort
of thing and I don't totally discount
the cynical interpretation it's like oh
they're saying this cuz they want to get
investors and so forth and they need all
this money. But look it was also true
that OpenAI and Anthropic but OpenAI a
little more were like founded with these
very exotic corporate structures like a
private company owned by a non-profit
etc. Which they presumably did because
they took pretty seriously the fact that
this technology and science was like
very strange and not just like
it's not just enterprise software.
>> Right, like they were self-limiting in a
way. One other interesting thing too
that I
that I this idea is like okay Like first
of all, what's the difference between 7
month and 4 month time doubling? Not
much. You know, it's like the people are
like oh I think
>> Yeah, but it's exponential, isn't it? I
guess it's exponential, but it's still
funny to me. It's like oh I think like
AI is going to destroy all white collar
work in two years and someone else like
no, no, I think it's going to be three
years. As if that makes like any
difference whatsoever. But one thing to
consider in um
Joel sort of alluded to this. You know,
you had like open AI shutting down its
like video efforts etc. So perhaps part
of the story is just this intense focus
now on the software engineering side as
what these labs are working in and sort
of like all these other side quests are
not as important. So maybe we will see
even more rapid progress on some of
these technical benchmarks because
clearly from the labs perspective,
that's where the action is more than
some of these consumer things like
making making images or videos. All
right, shall we leave it there? Let's
leave it there. Okay, this has been
another episode of the Odd Lots podcast.
I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow our guests Chris Painter at Chris
Painter yep and Joel Becker Joel_bkr.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Arman, Dash O'Bennett at Dashbot
and Kell Brooks at Kell Brooks.
>> And for more Odd Lots content, you can
check out our daily newsletter. You'll
find that at bloomberg.com/oddlots.
And you can chat about all these topics
24/7 in our discord discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet subscribe. Thanks
for watching.
>> [music]
[music]